
--- PAGE 1 ---
Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Applied Soft Computing
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/asoc
Design of multimodal hub-and-spoke transportation network for
emergency relief under COVID-19 pandemic: A meta-heuristic
approach
Chi Li a, Peixiu Han b,∗, Min Zhou a, Ming Gu a
a School of Software, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
b College of Transportation Engineering, Dalian Maritime University, Dalian, China
a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 12 January 2022
Received in revised form 10 September 2022
Accepted 8 December 2022
Available online 12 December 2022
Keywords:
COVID-19 pandemic
Emergency relief schedules
Multimodal hub-and-spoke transportation
network
Bi-objective MINLP model
Customized Grey Wolf Optimizer
Meta-heuristics
a b s t r a c t
When COVID-19 suddenly broke out, the epidemic areas are short of basic emergency relief which
need to be transported from surrounding areas. To make transportation both time-efficient and
cost-effective, we consider a multimodal hub-and-spoke transportation network for emergency relief
schedules. Firstly, we establish a mixed integer nonlinear programming (MINLP) model considering
multi-type emergency relief and multimodal transportation. The model is a bi-objective one that aims
at minimizing both transportation time consumption and transportation costs. Due to its NP-hardness,
devising an efficient algorithm to cope with such a problem is challenging. This study thus employs
and redesigns Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO) to tackle it. To benchmark our algorithm, a real-world
case is tested with three solution methods which include other two state-of-the-art meta-heuristics.
Results indicate that the customized GWO can solve such a problem in a reasonable time with higher
accuracy. The research could provide significant practical management insights for related government
departments and transportation companies on designing an effective transportation network for
emergency relief schedules when faced with the unexpected COVID-19 pandemic.
© 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
The COVID-19 virus, characterized with fast-speed spread,
easy infection and long-time duration among people, has been
described as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO)
[1]. Data published by WHO as of November 9, 2020, informed
that the epidemic has spread to more than 210 countries [2].
Due to the suddenness of COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, the
epidemic districts and their adjacent areas are always caught
unprepared [3]. The local reserve of basic materials is usually not
sufficient when COVID-19 suddenly comes [4].
In such situation, people in disaster areas are in shortage
of multi-type relief, such as basic living materials (food) and
personal medical protection equipment (mask). Therefore, the
scheduling of food and mask from other areas with adequate
inventory for aid is of great importance. An optimal transporta-
tion network for food and mask scheduling depends on proper
network structures. The hub-and-spoke structure is well-used in
a comprehensive transportation network with scale of economies
[5–8]. In a hub-and-spoke transportation network, freights are
firstly picked up from supply nodes and transited to proper hubs
∗ Corresponding author.
E-mail address: hpx0807@yeah.net (P. Han).
functioned as huge transshipment centers. After sorting, labeling
and packaging operations inside hubs, such freights are then
delivered to demand nodes (shown in Fig. 1). In the hub-and-
spoke emergency relief transportation network, different types
of relief may have particular transportation requirements. For in-
stance, medical products are urgent relief with high value which
should be transported within a relative short time. In reality,
they are usually transported by air mode. Generally, different
transportation modes have their specific advantages in aspects
with capacity, unit freight and transportation time. Therefore,
not only the scheduling of multi-type relief, but also multimodal
transportation should be taken into considerations in the hub-
and-spoke transportation network for satisfying various trans-
portation requirements.
As is known for all, time is life, particularly faced with such
cruel pandemic. The time efficiency of basic living supplies tran-
sition should always be taken in the first place. While considering
transportation time consuming, the transportation cost should
not be ignored since the economic expenditure is tighter than
usual. Thus a proper transportation network for transporting
emergency relief with both time efficiency and economic supe-
riority is of essential necessity. Namely, in this research, mini-
mizing both transportation time and transportation cost of the
hub-and-spoke network should be considered.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2022.109925
1568-4946/© 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.


--- PAGE 2 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Fig. 1. The structure of hub-and-spoke transportation network.
Undoubtedly, the problem becomes much more complicated
when we take all the mentioned aspects (multi-type relief, mul-
timodal transportation, minimize both transportation time and
transportation cost) into account. Based on considerations of two
objectives mentioned in last paragraph, such a complex prob-
lem can be formulated as a bi-objective mixed integer nonlinear
programming (MINLP) model which could not be directly solved
by an MIP solver [9,10]. In addition, due to its NP-hardness,
the problem cannot be solved optimally by exact algorithms
within a reasonable computational time, particularly for large-
scale instances [11]. Therefore, it is essential to design efficient
meta-heuristic approach to solve such problems. Among the ex-
isting meta-heuristic algorithms, Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO) is
a population-based nature-inspired algorithm recently proposed
by Mirjalili in 2014 [12]. It simulates the social behavior of grey
wolf for hunting prey which is a swarm intelligence algorithm
based on leadership hierarchy. The application of GWO has been
greatly active in the literature and related engineering fields [13–
18]. In this study, customized GWO is designed to cope with
problems in pickup (from supply nodes to hubs) and delivery
processes (from hubs to demand nodes) within a hub-and-spoke
transportation network. To validate the correctness of model and
the proposed algorithm, a real-world case is introduced for tests.
Two other state-of-the-art algorithms: Firefly Algorithm (FA) [19]
and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) [20] are also presented to
make comparisons with customized GWO for algorithm efficiency
verification.
From the aspects of transportation network design, tailored
model establishment, customized GWO algorithm design, and
important management insights for related authorities, the main
contributions of this study are concluded and given as follows:
• We are dedicated to designing and optimizing a comprehen-
sive emergency relief supply transportation network with
hub-and-spoke structure with high efficiency. In the net-
work, multi-type relief and multimodal transportation are
both considered.
• A bi-objective MINLP model is established for the specific
network which considers not only transportation time con-
sumption but also transportation cost. In reality, transporta-
tion time consuming has greater priority than transportation
cost with higher weights in the calculation.
• To solve the model with efficiency, a customized GWO is
designed and applied to solve a real-world case. The other
two heuristic approaches are then introduced to make com-
parisons. The experimental results validate the superiorities
of customized GWO.
• The research can provide practical management insights
for both related government departments and transporta-
tion companies. For government departments, the effec-
tive transportation network provides basic safeguards for
medical aid and life order guarantee. For transportation
companies undertaking transportation tasks, this study will
guarantee both transportation capacities and economic ben-
efits.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In Sec-
tion 2, a literature review of existing researches for solving
emergency relies supply transportation problem and current ap-
plications for routing problems solved by GWO are given. In
Section 3, we establish a bi-objective MINLP model minimiz-
ing both transportation time and cost to optimize the whole
emergency relief transportation network. The basic GWO and
customized GWO are presented in details in Section 4. In Sec-
tion 5, to benchmark our algorithm, a real-world case are tested
with three solution methods which include other two state-of-
the-art heuristics. From the industrial case, practical management
insights are summarized in Section 6. Finally, conclusion is given
in Section 7.
2. Literature review
In this study, we aim at designing an efficient transporta-
tion network for emergency relief under COVID-19 pandemic. To
effectively solve such a complex problem, a tailored GWO was
designed. As a newly proposed meta-heuristic algorithm, GWO
has wide applications in routing problems. Therefore, in this sec-
tion, we first summarize typical emergency relief transportation
research. Subsequently, the classical research on solving routing
problems with GWO are reviewed and summarized.
2


--- PAGE 3 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
2.1. Researches on emergency relief transportation
The emergency relief transportation, also called as emergency
relief logistics, has long been researched by related scholars.
Pettit et al. [21] present a refined model for logistics require-
ments in emergency conditions. The model takes the existing
military and non-military response models into consideration.
Sheu [22] presents a hybrid fuzzy clustering-optimization ap-
proach for emergency relief logistics in the crucial rescue pe-
riod. Two recursive mechanisms containing disaster-affected area
grouping and relief co-distribution are involved in a three-layer
emergency logistics co-distribution framework. Numerical exper-
iments are conducted based on earthquake disaster occurring in
Taiwan and the corresponding results validate the superiority of
the proposed method. Lei [23] proposes a novel decision support
system for relief logistics in natural disasters. Capacity limita-
tions, priority of commodities and dynamic demand requirements
are considered in the system. An interactive solution approach
is then introduced for solving dynamic and goal programming
model. Altay [24] gives a detailed presentation about existing
modeling approaches that relate to disaster relief. Also, some
challenging directions that cannot be easily incorporated into
mathematical models have also been presented. Customer service
is then considered in the international emergency relief chains
by Oloruntoba and Gray [25]. Inspired by the immune system,
Hu [26] models container multimodal transportation emergency
relief system as an affinity network. To solve such problem, an
integer linear programming model is then proposed. Afterwards,
the simulation results of case studies verify the promising effects
of model. It is known that humanitarian relief logistics is one
of the most important elements of emergency relief logistics
management. For reality, Ali et al. [27] develop a multi-objective
robust stochastic programming approach for disaster emergency
relief logistics under uncertainty. It is worth mentioning that the
uncertain parameters contain demand uncertainty, supplies un-
certainty and procurement and transportation cost uncertainty.
Malek and Moghaddam [28] present a bi-objective mixed inte-
ger mathematical model for Humanitarian Relief Logistics (HRL)
which determines optimal warehouse locations, emergency relief
amounts of warehouse, and transportation plans. Then a Reserva-
tion Level Tchebycheff Procedure (RLTP) method is proposed to
solve the bi-objective model. Liu et al. [29] propose a stochastic
model for post-disaster relief logistics considering the particu-
lar environmental conditions after a catastrophic earthquake in
mountainous areas. A robust optimization approach is introduced
to tackle with uncertainties of the proposed stochastic model.
Considering the post-disaster road network repair work schedul-
ing and relief logistics, Li and Teo [30] establish a multi-period
bi-level programming model for the problem. To work it out, a
maximum relative satisfaction degree based steady-state parallel
genetic algorithm is proposed. From the new aspect of mini-
mizing the late arrival of relief vehicles, Davoodi and Goli [31]
proposed an integrated model for relief operations in critical
situations. It is worth mentioning that the covering tour approach
is applied for vehicle routing part in the model which can speed
up the disaster logistics system systems. To work out the model, a
hybrid benders decomposition and variable neighborhood search
approach is designed and introduced whose applications in the
case study are proved to be highly efficient. Boostani et al. [32]
present a three-level relief chain problem in pre- and postdis-
aster duration. The objective functions contain three aspects:
(1) minimizing total costs of the humanitarian relief supply chain,
(2) maximizing the social welfare and (3) minimizing the envi-
ronmental impacts. A multi-objective mixed integer stochastic
programming model is established to decide facility locations,
procurement and resource allocation.
2.2. Applications for GWO solving routing problems
The applications of GWO for solving routing problems are
in a quite few amount. While there are still some researchers
dedicated to introducing GWO to solving complex routing prob-
lems. A ‘K-GWO’ algorithm is designed by [33] combining GWO
with the traditional K-means clustering algorithm to solve CVRP.
The results tested on benchmark datasets validate the efficiency
of ‘K-GWO’. A new technique to solve TSP based on standard
GWO is proposed and verified among several numerical exper-
iments [34]. Furthermore, swap operator and swap sequence are
also considered to adapt GWO for TSP. A novel D-GWO [35] is
recently presented for solving symmetric TSP, with which 2-opt
algorithm also is combined. D-GWO is then verified by comparing
the results with several hybrid algorithms among 17 instances
from TSPLIB. More researches related to GWO and its applications
can be found in [36]. Although GWO is a relative fresh algorithm
compared with other classical ones, its superiorities on solving
routing problems can be clearly observed from related researches.
In this study, while enhancing the solution efficiency, we con-
tinue employing and redesigning a customized GWO for solving
such emergency relief supply routing problem under COVID-19
pandemic.
3. Model establishment
In this section, we first present a formal description of the
multi-type relief and multimodal transportation network design
problem. Some necessary assumptions and notations are given in
details subsequently. We then introduce a tailored bi-objective
mixed integer linear programming (MILP) model established for
the specific problem.
3.1. Problem description
Basic living and medical emergency relief (like food and mask)
in the epidemic areas are always in critical shortage status at the
initial stage of COVID-19 pandemic outbreak [3,4]. Thus filling the
basic supply shortage as soon as possible by scheduling emer-
gency relief from other nearer regions is of great significance.
While transportation cost should also be taken into considera-
tions even though transportation time is more prioritized. Taking
fully consideration of improving transportation time efficiency
and minimizing transportation cost, a bi-objective MINLP model
with reasonable constraints is proposed.
In reality, emergency supplies come in all directions from
other regions functioned with sufficient material storage and
relative optimal distance [37]. However, it would easily lead
to high time consuming and cost waste if all the supply areas
connect directly to each demand region. Thus hub-and-spoke
transportation network is adopted in this research due to scale
of economies. In the designed hub-and-spoke network, different
transportation modes are also introduced since particular trans-
portation mode has its own characteristics which caters for the
specific transportation requirements. For instance, railway mode
has advantages in freight volumes and unit transportation cost,
but it cannot guarantee transportation time. While air mode is
quite the contrary.
Based on what has mentioned above, a multi-type relief and
multimodal transportation network with hub-and-spoke struc-
ture is designed in this study. Given supply and demand nodes,
candidate hub nodes, demand quantities and other related pa-
rameters, the following terms can be determined:
• which hub(s) is/are selected
• which supply nodes and demand nodes are allocated to
hub(s)
3


--- PAGE 4 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Table 1
Notations explanation.
Set
I The set of supply nodes, i ∈ I
O The set of candidate hubs, o ∈ O
J The set of demand nodes, j ∈ J
K The set of transportation modes, k ∈ K
W The set of emergency relief types, w ∈ W
Parameter
mw The unit weight of the w-type emergency relief
t kw
io The transportation time of the w-type emergency relief picked up by the k-type vehicle from supply node i ∈ I to hub o ∈ O
t kw
oj The transportation time of the w-type emergency relief delivered by the k-type vehicle from hub o ∈ O to demand node j ∈ J
t w
o The transshipment time of the w-type emergency relief at hub o ∈ O
Mk The maximum capacity of the k-type vehicle
c kw
io The unit transportation cost of the w-type emergency relief picked up by the k-type vehicle from supply node i ∈ I to hub o ∈ O
c kw
oj The unit transportation cost of the w-type emergency relief delivered by the k-type vehicle from hub o ∈ O to demand node j ∈ J
cw
o The transshipment cost of the w-type emergency relief at hub o ∈ O
dk
io The distance between supply node i ∈ I and hub o ∈ O when emergency relief is picked up by the k-type vehicle
dk
oj The distance between hub o ∈ O and demand node j ∈ J when emergency relief is delivered by the k-type vehicle
Sw
i The reserve of the w-type emergency relief at supply node i ∈ I
C w
o The maximum capacity of hub o ∈ O
Dw
j The demand of the w-type emergency relief at demand node j ∈ J
Q k
io The maximum available vehicle number transported from supply node i ∈ I to hub o ∈ O
Q k
oj The maximum available vehicle number transported from hub o ∈ O to demand node j ∈ J
ϕw
j The minimum demand ratio of the w-type emergency relief at demand node j ∈ J
Decision variables
xkw
io xkw
io is 1 if the w-type emergency relief is transported by the k-type vehicle from supply node i ∈ I to hub o ∈ O, is 0 otherwise
xkw
oj xkw
oj is 1 if the w-type emergency relief is transported by the k-type vehicle from hub o ∈ O to demand node j ∈ J, is 0 otherwise
xoo xoo is 1 if node o is selected to be a hub, is 0 otherwise
hkw
io The amount of the w-type emergency relief picked up by the k-type vehicle from supply node i ∈ I to hub o ∈ O
hkw
oj The amount of the w-type emergency relief delivered by the k-type vehicle from hub o ∈ O to demand node j ∈ J
• which transportation modes are selected to deliver the spe-
cific type of relief supplies
• how many particular-type supplies are transported en-route
3.2. Assumptions and notations
For convenience to establish tailored model, some necessary
assumptions and notations need to be given here. The assump-
tions are listed as bellows and notation explanations are given in
Table 1.
• The reserve in supply nodes are comprised of original re-
serve, social donation and other supply channels.
• All the candidate hubs are established ones whose construc-
tion cost will not be reconsidered.
• The areas where hubs are located have already been suffi-
ciently supplied and do not need extra relief from supply
nodes.
• The direct connections between hubs are not allowed.
3.3. Mathematical model
Based on problem assumptions and necessary notation expla-
nations, the model for emergency relief hub-and-spoke trans-
portation network under COVID-19 pandemic can be detailed
given in this subsection.
3.3.1. Objective function
Objective function contains two parts: (1) minimizing trans-
portation time and (2) minimizing the total transportation cost.
COVID-19 pandemic is undoubtedly a serious emergency event
and the pandemic will rapidly expand as time passes for the
sake of high-infectious characteristics and COVID-19 variant [37,
38]. To some extent, time is life. Therefore, the scheduling of
emergency relief should always take transportation time effi-
ciency as the first place. The transportation time contains three
parts: transportation time from supply nodes to hubs, transship-
ment time inside hubs and transportation time from hubs to
corresponding demand nodes (Eq. (1)).
F1 = min
∑
i∈I
∑
o∈O
∑
k∈K
∑
w∈W
[
hkw
io · mw
Mk
]
· t kw
io xkw
io
+
∑
i∈I
∑
o∈O
∑
w∈W
hkw
io t w
o xoo
+
∑
o∈O
∑
j∈J
∑
k∈K
∑
w∈W
[
hkw
oj · mw
Mk
]
· t kw
oj xkw
oj
(1)
Secondly, the consideration of transportation cost should also
be taken after transportation time consuming. Once the trans-
portation started from supply nodes, corresponding transporta-
tion cost will generate. Particularly, more urgent the supplies
are, more expensive the transportation cost will be. It can be
explained that the most urgent relief will be transported by air
mode to assure the time efficiency whose transportation cost is
much more higher than that of other modes (road and railway
mode). As is known to all that the economy is rather tense
during the COVID-19 pandemic due to distribution of regular
social work and life. Therefore, optimizing total transportation
cost should also be considered as the second objective which
contains three aspects: Transportation cost from supply node to
hub, transshipment cost in hub and transportation cost from hub
to demand node (Eq. (2)).
F2 = min
∑
i∈I
∑
o∈O
∑
k∈K
∑
w∈W
c kw
io dkw
io hkw
io mwxkw
io
+
∑
i∈I
∑
o∈O
∑
w∈W
cw
o hkw
io mwxoo
+
∑
o∈O
∑
j∈J
∑
k∈K
∑
w∈W
c kw
oj dkw
oj hkw
oj mwxkw
oj
(2)
4


--- PAGE 5 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
3.3.2. Constraints
Reasonable constraints are essential components of a model
since they can restrict the model and make the solutions accurate.
Firstly, the hub location and allocation should be constrained as
follows:
For hub nodes, each hub node can be connected with more
than one supply nodes:
∑
i∈I
xkw
io ≥ 1 ∀o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (3)
For demand nodes, each demand node can be served by more
than one hub:
∑
o∈O
xkw
oj ≥ 1 ∀j ∈ J, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (4)
Only if the hub is established and selected can the arcs be-
tween supply nodes and hub (or between hub and demand nodes)
exist
xkw
io ≤ xoo ∀i ∈ I, o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (5)
xkw
oj ≤ xoo ∀o ∈ O, j ∈ J, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (6)
Each supply node has their own reserve limitation, the amount
of relief supplies transported from the supply nodes should not
exceed the corresponding reserve limitation. Similarly, each hub
has its own capacity limitation for the specific relief, the amount
of relief arrived and shortly stored at hubs should be within the
limitation respectively:
∑
o∈O
hkw
io ≤ Sw
i ∀i ∈ I, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (7)
∑
i∈I
hkw
io ≤ C w
o ∀o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (8)
The flow balance principal should always be obey, that is,
the amount of relief flowing into the hub equals to the amount
flowing out of the hub whatever the types:
∑
o∈O
xkw
oj = 1 ∀j ∈ J, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (9)
The demand requirements should be satisfied as much as
possible. In fact, the emergency relief may not be quite adequate
when COVID-19 pandemic suddenly breaks out, but the minimum
demand must be fulfilled:
∑
j∈J
hkw
oj ≤ Dw
j ∀o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (10)
∑
j∈J
hkw
oj ≥ ϕw
j Dw
j ∀o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (11)
For the transportation modes, the relief supplies with specific
type can only be delivered by one transportation mode on the
corresponding arc:
∑
k∈K
xkw
io = 1 ∀i ∈ I, o ∈ O, w ∈ W (12)
∑
k∈K
xkw
oj = 1 ∀o ∈ O, j ∈ J, w ∈ W (13)
The available vehicle number of each transportation mode is
different at each supply node and hub. The vehicles put into use
should not exceed the corresponding transport capacity of each
node:
[
hkw
io mw
Mk
]
≤ Q k
io ∀i ∈ I, o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (14)
[
hkw
oj mw
Mk
]
≤ Q k
oj ∀o ∈ O, j ∈ J, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (15)
All the decision variables domains are defined as follows:
xkw
io ∈ {0, 1} ∀ i ∈ I, o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (16)
xkw
oj ∈ {0, 1} ∀ o ∈ O, j ∈ J, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (17)
xoo ∈ {0, 1} ∀ o ∈ O (18)
hkw
io ≥ 0 ∀i ∈ I, o ∈ O, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (19)
hkw
oj ≥ 0 ∀o ∈ O, j ∈ J, k ∈ K , w ∈ W (20)
4. Meta-heuristic approach
In this section, we first give a brief introduction to basic GWO.
Subsequently, our customized GWO is described at length in four
parts: construction stage, fitness calculation, improvement stage,
and the customized GWO. To make it a clear and vivid readership,
we finally depict the whole model solution framework.
4.1. Basic GWO
Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO) is a population-based meta-heu-
ristics algorithm inspired by the hunting and social behavior of
the grey wolf pack. Grey wolf maintains a hierarchy of their
society. Specifically, α represents the leader wolf, β represents
the second-hierarchy wolf and δ is the third-hierarchy wolf. The
rest wolves are called ω. Tracking, pursuing, and attacking are the
main phases of grey wolf hunting. For vivid readership, detailed
introduction of basic GWO is presented in Algorithm 1.
In order to model the social hierarchy of grey wolves, the first
three best wolves ( α, β, δ) will instruct other wolves rushing
to the target. The rest wolves ( ω) always update their locations
according to α, β and δ.
In the process of hunting, encircling action can be defined as
following:
⃗D =
⏐⏐⏐⃗C · ⃗Xp(t) − ⃗X (t)
⏐⏐⏐ (21)
− →X (t + 1) = − →Xp (t) − − →A· − →D (22)
where t indicates the current iteration, − →A and − →C are coeffi-
cient vectors, − →Xp (t) is the position vector of the prey, and − →X (t)
indicates the position vector of a grey wolf.
The vectors − →A and − →C are calculated as follows:
− →A = 2− →a · − →r1 − − →a (23)
− →C = 2 · − →r2 (24)
where components of − →a are linearly decreased from 2 to 0 over
the course of iterations and − →r1 , − →r2 are random vectors in [0,1].
Each wolf uses the potential of α, β and δ wolves in hunting
strategy as they are best in pack. The wolves update their position
with the help of α, β and δ as follows:
⎧
⎪⎨
⎪⎩
− →X1 = − →Xα − A1 · (− →Dα)
− →X2 = − →Xβ − A2 · (− →Dβ )
− →X3 = − →Xδ − A3 · (− →Dδ )
(25)
− →X (t + 1) =
− →X1 + − →X2 + − →X3
3
(26)
where − →Xα , − →Xβ and − →Xδ are the approximated positions of α, β and
δ wolves. − →X (t + 1) represents the updated position of wolf.
4.2. Customized GWO
The model given in Section 3 is a nonlinear one which could
not be directly solved by MIP solver. In addition, due to its
5


--- PAGE 6 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Fig. 2. The diagram of the proposed transportation network.
Algorithm 1: Pseudo code of basic GWO
1 Initialize the wolf population P = {X1, X2, ..., Xn};
2 Initialize the parameters − →A , − →C , − →a ;
3 Calculate the fitness of each wolf Xi;
4 Select:
5 α = the current best wolf;
6 β = the current second best wolf;
7 δ = the current third best wolf;
8 Initialize iter = 0;
9 while iter < termination criterion do
10 for each wolf X i do
11 Update the position of current wolf using Eq. (26);
12 end
13 Update the parameter values of − →A , − →C ,− →a ;
14 Update the three best wolfs α, β, δ;
15 iter += 1;
16 end
17 return the best wolf α;
NP-hardness, the model cannot be solved optimally by exact
algorithms within a reasonable computational time particularly
for large-scale instances. Therefore, we design a meta-heuristic
approach based on GWO structure. The proposed algorithm is
comprised of two stages: construction stage and improvement
stage. In construction stage, some initial operations are con-
ducted and respective constraints are checked for validation. In
improvement stage, we design a HD move strategy to update
GWO solutions.
Our model can be simply described as Fig. 2. As is shown
in Fig. 2, the designed transportation network is divided into
three processes: (1) pickup process (from supply nodes to hubs),
(2) transshipment process (transshipment operations inside hubs)
and (3) delivery process (from hubs to demand nodes). The
transportation planning of pickup process shares the same logic
with that of delivery process. Thus we only introduce detailed
solutions of pickup process. The solutions of delivery process
can be obtained according to the same method used in pickup
process. Now we proceed to design and introduce customized
GWO for solving transportation problems in pickup process.
4.2.1. Construction stage
In construction stage, we firstly initialize the pickup amount of
food and mask. Specifically, initialize and generate a
transportation-amount matrix with the scale of
N(number of supply nodes ) × M(number of hubs ). For instance,
if the number of supply nodes and hubs is both two, then
we generate a 2 × 2 matrix formed as [[A1, A2], [B1, B2]].
During construction of transportation-amount matrix, it should
be guaranteed that the sum of A1 and A2 is no more than
the reserve of current first supply node. Similarly, the total of
B1 and B2 should not exceed the reserve of current second
supply node. Each item in the matrix represents detailed supply
amount which is always non-negative. For instance, A1 denotes
the transportation quantity from the first supply node to the
first hub. Two sets of N × M transportation-amount matrices
are generated to represent the transportation amount of food
and mask respectively. According to the model described in Sec-
tion 3.3, constraint examinations should be conducted to initial
transportation-amount matrices. Here, only the constraint related
to hub capacity need to be checked. Take the first hub (hub1) for
example, the current capacity of hub1 is the sum of A1 and B1,
then we need to check whether the current capacity is within
the limitation of hub1’s capacity. If all the capacity constraints of
hubs are satisfied, then a transportation-amount matrix [[A1, A2],
[B1, B2]] is successfully obtained. The initialization operations
for transportation amounts then end up. Otherwise, regenerate
transportation-amount matrix until all the hub constraints are
satisfied.
Two matrices of transportation amount for food and mask
could be obtained based on steps mentioned above. For the two
transportation-amount matrices, we need to generate two re-
spective transportation-mode matrices. For instance, given ‘road
mode = 1, railway mode = 2 and air mode = 3’, the transporta-
tion-mode matrix can be initialized as [[2, 3], [1, 2]]. Then it can
be described as: railway mode is selected to transit freights from
the first supply node to the first hub. We generate transportation-
mode matrices respectively against food and mask. Thus two
specific transportation-mode matrices are obtained. Now we pro-
ceed to check constraints of vehicle number in each supply node.
Namely, it should be examined that whether the available ve-
hicle number can cater for current vehicle demand based on
above-mentioned transportation mode. If the constraints are vio-
lated, then we regenerate transportation-mode matrices until the
vehicle number constraints are satisfied.
Finally, we obtain a solution of pickup process which contains
transportation-amount matrices of food and mask ( food_amount,
mask_amount) and corresponding matrices of transportation
mode ( food_trans, mask_trans). In summary, an initial solution of
customized GWO will be formed as ( food_amount, mask_amount,
food_trans, mask_trans).
6


--- PAGE 7 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
4.2.2. Fitness calculation
Each solution can be regarded as a wolf in GWO structure.
After construction stage, qualified wolves are obtained. Then we
proceed to calculate the fitness of each wolf according to Eq. (27):
fitness = w1 · ftime − min ftime
min ftime
+ w2 · ftrans − min ftrans
min ftrans
(27)
where ftime is the whole time consuming and ftrans denotes the
total transportation cost for one solution. ftime and ftrans of pickup
process can be calculated respectively by the first item of Eqs. (1)
and (2). w1 and w2 are particular weights of transportation time
and transportation cost. The sum of w1 and w2 equals to 1
whereas w1 is set to be more than 0.5 due to the priority of
time efficiency under COVID-19 pandemic. It is worth mentioning
that the solutions obtained will be better when w1 = 0.6 and
w2 = 0.4. min ftime and min ftrans are obtained by ordering the
time and transportation cost among all the solutions.
4.2.3. Improvement stage
According to the fitness calculation, the first three optimal so-
lutions are selected to be α, β, δ wolf mentioned in basic GWO. In
our proposed algorithm, improvement part is focus on enhancing
transportation modes, that is, the value within food_trans and
mask_trans.
In improvement stage, Hamming distance (HD) concept [39] is
introduced to update each ordinary wolf. In informatics, between
two strings with equal length, the number of different characters
in the corresponding positions is called hamming distance. For
instance, the two binary strings S1 = [0 1 0 1] and S2 = [1 0
1 1], the first, second and third place are different between S1
and S2, then HD is 3. Now we define the transportation-mode
matrix needed to improve as X and the target transportation-
mode matrix is L (matrix in α, β or δ). Then, the moving distance
of X attracted by L is defined as follows (Eq. (28)), that is, the
random number between 0 and HD. New solutions are obtained
after such HD move, as shown in Algorithm 2. After each HD
move, we need to examine the constraints of vehicle number.
If the new transportation mode cannot cater for the vehicle
number, we will keep the original one. Otherwise, update current
transportation mode.
Random[0, HD(X, L)] (28)
Algorithm 2: Pseudo code of HD move
Input : Transportation-mode matrix L and X
Output: An updated transportation mode X
1 move = calculate moving distance between L and X by Eq. (28) ;
2 while move > 0 do
3 i = random choose a position where L and X have different values ;
4 valuei = obtain the value stored in position i from L;
5 Update the value of position i in X by valuei and check constraints;
6 move -= 1;
7 end
8 return X ;
4.2.4. The customized GWO
The design of customized GWO is given in Algorithm 3. At
first, we initialize the transportation amount of food and mask
by the methods introduced in Section 4.2.1, after which initial
transportation-amount solutions food_amount and mask_amount
are obtained. Then, based on the food_amount and mask_amount,
we proceed to get transportation-mode solutions food_trans and
mask_trans. A wolf in customized GWO is defined as
(food_amount, mask_amount, food_trans, mask_trans).
In Algorithm 3, for the food_amount and mask_amount, there
are ten different transportation modes food_trans and mask_trans
being constructed respectively. Thus we form a wolf population
Algorithm 3: Pseudo code of customized GWO
1 Initialize wolf _num = 0;
2 Initialize wolf _population = ∅;
// Introduced in Sec.4.2.1
3 Initialize food_amount, mask_amount;
4 while wolf _num < 10 do
// Introduced in Sec.4.2.1
5 Initialize a possible food_trans and mask_trans;
6 wolf = ( food_amount, mask_amount, food_trans, mask_trans);
7 Add wolf into wolf _population;
8 wolf _num += 1;
9 end
// Introduced in Sec.4.2.2
10 Calculate the fitness of each wolf;
11 α, β, δ = the current first, second, and third best wolves;
12 Initialize iter = 0;
13 while iter < termination criterion do
14 for each wolf ∈ wolf _population do
15 if wolf not equals α, β, or δ then
16 Acquire food_trans in wolf ;
17 r1 = HD_move( food_trans, α’s food_trans);
18 r2 = HD_move( food_trans, β’s food_trans);
19 r3 = HD_move( food_trans, δ’s food_trans);
20 food_trans = pick the best one from { r1, r2, r3};
21 Update the mask_trans similar to the procedure from line
16 to 20;
22 end
23 end
24 Update α, β, δ by the three best wolfs;
25 iter += 1;
26 end
27 return α;
with ten wolves. Afterwards, improvement stage introduced in
Section 4.2.3 is conducted to update the wolf population. We
firstly calculate fitness of wolf groups and then select the first
three wolves with minimum fitness as α, β and δ. Carrying out
HD move to enhance food_trans and mask_trans for obtaining
better results. Continually repeat the above steps until it reaches
iteration time settings. Finally we output wolf α (food_amount,
mask_amount, food_trans, mask_trans) as the solution of cus-
tomized GWO where food_trans and mask_trans are the optimal
transportation mode against food_amount and mask_amount via
customized GWO.
4.3. The whole model solution framework
The whole model solution framework is given in Algorithm
4. As is mentioned above, the transportation process contains
three parts: pickup process, transshipment process and delivery
process. Firstly, we conduct customized GWO (Algorithm 3) to
the pickup process. Solutions of pickup process are then ob-
tained which contain transportation amount of food and mask
(food_amount and mask_amount) and their respective transporta-
tion mode ( food_trans and mask_trans) from supply nodes to
hubs. Secondly, calculate transshipment time and cost of food
and mask in transshipment process. After that, we proceed to
solve delivery process using Algorithm 3 since the solution logic
is the same of both pickup and delivery process. Solutions of
delivery process can also be obtained which are comprised of
transportation amount of food and mask, and their respective
transportation mode from hubs to demand nodes. Above all, we
get solutions of pickup process, transshipment process and de-
livery process. According to solutions of each process, the model
transportation time consuming and transportation cost can be
calculated respectively by Eqs. (1) and (2). Whilst solving the
model, repeat the above solving process until iteration time N
reaches. Meanwhile, the number of N results are obtained, from
which we choose the result with minimum fitness as the final
7


--- PAGE 8 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Fig. 3. The geographical locations of 13 nodes.
output result. By conducting the Algorithm 4, solutions of pickup
process, transshipment process and delivery process are finally
obtained which also give answers to Section 3.1.
Algorithm 4: Pseudo code of model solution framework
1 Initialize iter = 0;
2 Initialize summary results R = ∅ ;
3 while iter < termination criterion do
4 pickup = apply Algorithm 3 for the pickup process;
5 According to the pickup result:
6 trp_time, trp_cost = calculate the transhipment time
7 and cost;
8 delivery = apply Algorithm 3 for the delivery process;
9 one_result = ( pickup, trp_time, trp_cost, delivery);
10 Add one_result into R;
11 iter += 1;
12 end
13 Initialize best_result = ∅;
14 Initialize best_fitness = +∞ ;
15 for each result ∈ R do
16 fitness = calculate the fitness of result;
17 if best_fitness > fitness then
18 best_fitness = fitness;
19 best_result = result;
20 end
21 end
22 return best_result;
5. Numerical experiments and analysis
In this section, we conduct the customized GWO to solve a
real-world case of Hubei Province in China. To verify the ef-
ficiency of proposed algorithm, FA [19] and PSO [20] are also
conducted and compared with customized GWO. The proposed
algorithm is coded in Python and computational tests are per-
formed on the computer with Intel(R) Core (TM) i7-5200U, CPU
2.20 GHz with 8 GB RAM. For statistical reliability, all the con-
ducted algorithms take the same 20 independent runs.
5.1. Data collection
We use the real-life case of emergency relief (food and mask)
transportation under COVID-19 pandemic in Hubei Province. The
whole transportation network contains five supply nodes (Shiji-
azhuang, Xian, Chengdu, Guiyang and Nanning), three candidate
hubs (Wuhan, Ezhou and Xiantao) and five demand nodes (Xi-
aogan, Huanggang, Huangshi, Tianmen and Xianning). The geo-
graphical locations of 13 nodes are shown in Fig. 3. The data
comes from Gaode map, related offices and communities in Hubei
province. It includes GIS (shown in Fig. 3) and parameter-related
data (shown in Table 2). In Table 2, the food and mask amount are
presented in the form of ‘(food-amount/ton,mask-amount/unit)’.
5.2. Result of real-world case
Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 visualize the results of food and mask trans-
portation in the hub-and-spoke network solving by customized
GWO. The more detailed route results are listed in Table 3 and Ta-
ble 4. In two tables, pickup or delivery amount and transportation
mode are given in the form of ‘(amount, transportation mode)’
whereas 1 represents road mode, 2 represents railway mode and
3 represents air mode. In addition, respective transportation time
consuming cost and transportation cost of food and mask are
given in Table 5.
5.3. Comparative analysis of numerical results
To further verify the efficiency of proposed algorithm, com-
parisons with FA [19] and PSO [20] are conducted to solve the
same case. The reason for choosing PSO and FA is that they
both belong to Swarm Intelligent algorithm and they exhibit
great performances on solving such combinatorial problems. The
comparative results are given in Table 6 which are the best
ones obtained by respective algorithms in 20 runs. From the
table, it can be concluded that customized GWO makes better
performance on solving the problem within a reasonable time.
It is worth mentioning that running time of customized GWO is
not the best, but it is in a reasonable range.
6. Management insights from the industrial case
As a sudden and fast-spread disease, COVID-19 pandemic
caught related epidemic areas unawares. In the real-world case
given in Section 5, when COVID-19 pandemic seriously breaks
out, residents in epidemic areas need to stop working and keep
themselves stay at home. Thus the production and economic
activities in epidemic areas need to be suspended for weeks or
8


--- PAGE 9 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Table 2
Information of supply, hub capacity and demand.
Supply Hub capacity Demand
Shijiazhuang (3000,1700k) Wuhan (15000,10000k) Xiaogan (4900,1000k)
Xian (3800,1500k) Ezhou (8000,8000k) Huanggang (6300,2100k)
Chengdu (5650,1500k) Xiantao (9000,8500k) Huangshi (2500,1900k)
Guiyang (2650,1400k) Tianmen (1300,810k)
Nanning (1900,1000k) Xianing (2000,2000k)
Fig. 4. The transportation network of food.
Fig. 5. The transportation network of mask.
9


--- PAGE 10 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Table 3
Pickup and delivery processes of food transportation.
Process Supply/Demand nodes Hub nodes
Wuhan Enzhou Xiantao
Pickup
Shijiazhuang (0,0) (2600,2) (0,0)
Xian (3400,2) (0,0) (0,0)
Chengdu (0,0) (214,2) (5036,2)
Guiyang (2250,2) (0,0) (0,0)
Nanning (1500,2) (0,0) (0,0)
Delivery
Xiaogan (0,0) (0,0) (4126,2)
Huanggang (6300,2) (0,0) (0,0)
Huangshi (0,0) (1750,2) (0,0)
Tianmen (0,0) (0,0) (910,2)
Xianning (850,2) (1064,2) (0,0)
Table 4
Pickup and delivery processes of mask transportation.
Process Supply/Demand nodes Hub nodes
Wuhan Enzhou Xiantao
Pickup
Shijiazhuang (0,0) (1200k,2) (0,0)
Xian (207.9k,3) (643.9k,3) (208.1k,3)
Chengdu (0,0) (1978k,2) (0,0)
Guiyang (0,0) (0,0) (847k,3)
Nanning (565k,3) (0,0) (0,0)
Delivery
Xiaogan (0,0) (0,0) (700k,2)
Huanggang (0,0) (1470k,1) (0,0)
Huangshi (0,0) (1330k,2) (0,0)
Tianmen (0,0) (567k,2) (0,0)
Xianning (772.9k,2) (454.9k,1) (355.1k,2)
even months until the epidemic is basically controlled. However,
during this closure period, residents’ normal medical protection
equipment and basic daily necessities need to be guaranteed in
quantity and quality. Local reserves are often difficult to cover
basic needs, so emergency supplies need to be transported from
neighboring regions with sufficient supplies. For the epidemic
areas, transportation time for basic emergency relief is in the
first place since time means life. Besides, transportation is ac-
companied by a cost. Therefore, on the basis of meeting the
transportation time and demand, the economy of transportation
also needs to be considered. Therefore, in this study, we make
efforts to design a practically time-efficient and cost-effective
transportation network when faced with COVID-19. The results
of the real-world case prove the efficiency of our methods and
can provide significantly practical suggestions for related author-
ities. From such an industrial case, some practical management
insights can be extracted and concluded for related govern-
ment departments and transportation companies that undertake
transportation tasks.
For relevant government departments, when COVID-19 pan-
demic suddenly broke out, it is of paramount importance to
quickly control COVID-19 pandemic situation and ensure the
stability of residents’ living order during the epidemic. The first
aspect needing to consider is the isolation and medical measures
for infected people and the medical protection for other residents,
which requires timely transportation and guarantee of medical
materials. The good living order of residents is based on enough
food, so the basic food demand must be satisfied, which requires
the timely guarantee of basic living materials. Therefore, the
transportation network designed in this study is important for
delivering necessary materials on time and on-demand, which
also provides the basic safeguard of management for relevant
government departments.
For related transportation companies which undertake such
important transportation tasks, what they need to consider is
transportation capacity and economic benefits. First of all, the
transportation means (trucks, trains, and airplanes) should be suf-
ficiently used and the transportation capacity should not exceed
the limited standard, which requires that the balance between
demand and capacity should be fully considered when designing
the transportation network. In addition, transportation compa-
nies have economic costs. Minimizing total transportation cost
on the basis of meeting transportation capacity is also an essen-
tial aspect of company operation. Therefore, the transportation
network designed in this study also takes the transportation
cost into account. In a word, the method proposed in our study
can minimize the transportation cost for transportation company
meanwhile catering to the transportation capacity, which has
certain practical significance for related companies undertaking
transportation tasks.
7. Conclusion
COVID-19 pandemic, a world-wide hazard disease, has spread
over 210 countries with unbelievable speed. The suddenness of
COVID-19 outbreak will lead to great shortage of basic living ma-
terials and medical protection products in the disaster-affected
areas. Therefore, it is urgent to schedule aided materials from
other nearer districts to injured areas. In this study, we make
efforts to design a comprehensive multimodal transportation net-
work with hub-and-spoke structure for transporting food and
mask. Considering both transportation time efficiency and trans-
portation cost, a bi-objective MINLP model is established. Due to
its nonlinearity, related MIP solver cannot directly cope with it. In
addition, as a NP-hard problem, it cannot be solved by exact al-
gorithms with efficiency as the problem scales expand. Therefore,
to solve such complex problem with efficiency, a meta-heuristic
algorithm called customized GWO is designed and proposed in
detail. Two stages are contained in proposed algorithm. In con-
struction stage, transportation amount and transportation mode
are well initialized. In improvement stage, HD move concept is
introduced to further enhance solution accuracy. Taking the ac-
tual cases of Hubei Province as research background, the model is
verified with real-world example. To prove that customized GWO
is a promising approximation method to solve such problem, its
performance is compared with other two state-of-the-art algo-
rithms. The simulation results support the fact that our proposed
algorithm can solve such problem with higher accuracy within a
reasonable time.
The research has strong practical guiding significance for emer-
gency relief supply transportation network design under COVID-
19 pandemic. And some important management insights can
be extracted and summarized for related government depart-
ments and transportation companies. For related government
departments, this study can provide basic safeguards for med-
ical aid and life order guarantee. For transportation companies
undertaking transportation tasks, this study will guarantee both
transportation capacities and economic benefits.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Chi Li: Conceptualization, Programming, Validation. Peixiu
Han: Conceptualization, Visualization, Writing – original draft.
Min Zhou: Responsible for gathering information. Ming Gu: Writ-
ing – review & editing.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared
to influence the work reported in this paper.
10


--- PAGE 11 ---
C. Li, P. Han, M. Zhou et al. Applied Soft Computing 133 (2023) 109925
Table 5
Time cost and transportation cost of real-world case.
Relief supplies Time cost (h) Transportation cost (CNY)
Pickup Transshipment Delivery Pickup Transshipment Delivery
Food 131.00 65.60 9.73 2906644.16 7287850.00 191696.00
Mask 82.97 10.40 36.83 3626481.24 1959192.42 77730.53
Total cost 336.53 16049594.34
Table 6
Comparisons among Customized GWO, FA and PSO.
Algorithm Cost Running
time (s)Time cost (h) Transportation cost (CNY)
Customized GWO 336.53 16049594.34 27.32
FA 374.80 16276706.55 29.13
PSO 433.79 17057410.01 26.55
References
[1] A. Remuzzi, G. Remuzzi, COVID-19 and Italy: What next? Lancet 395
(10231) (2020) 1225–1228.
[2] N. Alkan, C. Kahraman, Evaluation of government strategies against COVID-
19 pandemic using Q-rung orthopair fuzzy TOPSIS method, Appl. Soft
Comput. 110 (2021) 107653.
[3] Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, The Face Mask
Global Value Chain in the COVID-19 Outbreak: Evidence and Policy
Lessons, OECD Publishing, 2020.
[4] H. Bauchner, P.B. Fontanarosa, E.H. Livingston, Conserving supply of
personal protective equipment—A call for ideas, JAMA 323 (19) (2020)
1911.
[5] C.B. Cunha, M.R. Silva, A genetic algorithm for the problem of configuring
a hub-and-spoke network for a LTL trucking company in Brazil, European
J. Oper. Res. 179 (3) (2007) 747–758.
[6] Q. Meng, X. Wang, Intermodal hub-and-spoke network design: Incorporat-
ing multiple stakeholders and multi-type containers, Transp. Res. B 45 (4)
(2011) 724–742.
[7] S.-J. Jeong, C.-G. Lee, J.H. Bookbinder, The European freight railway system
as a hub-and-spoke network, Transp. Res. A 41 (6) (2007) 523–536.
[8] T. Aykin, Lagrangian relaxation based approaches to capacitated hub-and-
spoke network design problem, European J. Oper. Res. 79 (3) (1994)
501–523.
[9] N. Kokash, An introduction to heuristic algorithms, 2005, pp. 1–8,
Department of Informatics and Telecommunications.
[10] J. Žerovnik, Heuristics for NP-hard optimization problems: Simpler is
better!? Logist. Sustain. Transp. 6 (1) (2015) 1–10.
[11] R. Martí, G. Reinelt, Heuristic methods, in: Exact and Heuristic Methods in
Combinatorial Optimization, 2022, pp. 27–57.
[12] S. Mirjalili, S.M. Mirjalili, A. Lewis, Grey wolf optimizer, Adv. Eng. Softw.
69 (2014) 46–61.
[13] M. Nadimi-Shahraki, S. Taghian, S. Mirjalili, An improved Grey Wolf
Optimizer for solving engineering problems, Expert Syst. Appl. 166 (2021)
113917.
[14] M. Banaie-Dezfouli, M.H. Nadimi-Shahraki, Z. Beheshti, R-GWO:
Representative-based Grey Wolf Optimizer for solving engineering
problems, Appl. Soft Comput. 106 (2021) 107328.
[15] M. Ghalambaz, R.J. Yengejeh, A.H. Davami, Building energy optimization
using Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO), Case Stud. Therm. Eng. 27 (2021)
101250.
[16] A. Seyyedabbasi, F. Kiani, I-GWO and Ex-GWO: Improved algorithms of the
Grey Wolf Optimizer to solve global optimization problems, Eng. Comput.
37 (1) (2021) 509–532.
[17] A. Goli, H.K. Zare, R. Tavakkoli-Moghaddam, A. Sadeghieh, An improved ar-
tificial intelligence based on gray wolf optimization and cultural algorithm
to predict demand for dairy products: A case study, 2019.
[18] H. Rezk, J. Arfaoui, M.R. Gomaa, Optimal parameter estimation of solar
PV panel based on hybrid particle swarm and grey wolf optimization
algorithms, Int. J. Interact. Multimed. Artif. Intell. (2021).
[19] A.M. Altabeeb, A.M. Mohsen, A. Ghallab, An improved hybrid firefly
algorithm for capacitated vehicle routing problem, Appl. Soft Comput. 84
(2019) 105728.
[20] T.J. Ai, V. Kachitvichyanukul, Particle swarm optimization and two solu-
tion representations for solving the capacitated vehicle routing problem,
Comput. Ind. Eng. 56 (1) (2009) 380–387.
[21] S.J. Pettit, A.K. Beresford, Emergency relief logistics: An evaluation of
military, non-military and composite response models, Int. J. Logist.: Res.
Appl. 8 (4) (2005) 313–331.
[22] J.-B. Sheu, An emergency logistics distribution approach for quick response
to urgent relief demand in disasters, Transp. Res. E: Logist. Transp. Rev.
43 (6) (2007) 687–709.
[23] F. Lei, Dynamic multi-objective emergency relief logistics: A decision
support system framework, in: 2007 IEEE International Conference on Grey
Systems and Intelligent Services, IEEE, 2007, pp. 779–783.
[24] N. Altay, Issues in disaster relief logistics, in: Large-Scale Disasters:
Prediction, Control, and Mitigation, 2008, pp. 120–146.
[25] R. Oloruntoba, R. Gray, Customer service in emergency relief chains, Int. J.
Phys. Distrib. Logist. Manage. (2009).
[26] Z.-H. Hu, A container multimodal transportation scheduling approach
based on immune affinity model for emergency relief, Expert Syst. Appl.
38 (3) (2011) 2632–2639.
[27] A. Bozorgi-Amiri, M.S. Jabalameli, S.M. Al-e Hashem, A multi-objective
robust stochastic programming model for disaster relief logistics under
uncertainty, OR Spectrum 35 (4) (2013) 905–933.
[28] M. Rezaei-Malek, R. Tavakkoli-Moghaddam, Robust humanitarian relief
logistics network planning, Uncertain Supply Chain Manag. 2 (2) (2014)
73–96.
[29] Y. Liu, H. Lei, D. Zhang, Z. Wu, Robust optimization for relief logistics
planning under uncertainties in demand and transportation time, Appl.
Math. Model. 55 (2018) 262–280.
[30] S. Li, K.L. Teo, Post-disaster multi-period road network repair: Work
scheduling and relief logistics optimization, Ann. Oper. Res. 283 (1) (2019)
1345–1385.
[31] S.M.R. Davoodi, A. Goli, An integrated disaster relief model based on cov-
ering tour using hybrid benders decomposition and variable neighborhood
search: Application in the Iranian context, Comput. Ind. Eng. 130 (2019)
370–380.
[32] A. Boostani, F. Jolai, A. Bozorgi-Amiri, Designing a sustainable humanitarian
relief logistics model in pre-and postdisaster management, Int. J. Sustain.
Transp. (2020) 1–17.
[33] L. Korayem, M. Khorsid, S. Kassem, Using grey wolf algorithm to solve the
capacitated vehicle routing problem, IOP Conf. Ser.: Mater. Sci. Eng. 83 (1)
(2015) 012014.
[34] D.S. Sopto, S.I. Ayon, M. Akhand, N. Siddique, Modified grey wolf optimiza-
tion to solve traveling salesman problem, in: 2018 International Conference
on Innovation in Engineering and Technology, ICIET, IEEE, 2018, pp. 1–4.
[35] K. Panwar, K. Deep, Discrete Grey Wolf Optimizer for symmetric travelling
salesman problem, Appl. Soft Comput. 105 (2021) 107298.
[36] H. Faris, I. Aljarah, M.A. Al-Betar, S. Mirjalili, Grey Wolf Optimizer: A review
of recent variants and applications, Neural Comput. Appl. 30 (2) (2018)
413–435.
[37] E.B. Tirkolaee, A. Goli, P. Ghasemi, F. Goodarzian, Designing a sustainable
closed-loop supply chain network of face masks during the COVID-19
pandemic: Pareto-based algorithms, J. Clean. Prod. 333 (2022) 130056.
[38] M. Dur-e Ahmad, M. Imran, Transmission dynamics model of coronavirus
COVID-19 for the outbreak in most affected countries of the world, Int. J.
Interact. Multimed. Artif. Intell. (2020).
[39] M. Norouzi, D.J. Fleet, R.R. Salakhutdinov, Hamming distance metric
learning, in: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2012,
pp. 1061–1069.
11
